Grd 66741 (#263)
IBM/universal-connectors: filter-plugin/logstash-filter-mysql-guardium/README.md

# Mysql-Guardium Logstash filter plug-in

> This is a [Logstash](https://github.com/elastic/logstash) filter plug-in for the universal connector that is featured in IBM Security Guardium. It parses events and messages from the MySQL audit into a Guardium record instance (which is a standard structure made out of several parts). The information is then sent over to Guardium. Guardium records include the accessor (the person who tried to access the data), the session, data, and exceptions. If there are no errors, the data contains details about the query "construct". The contstruct details the main action (verb) and collections (objects) involved.

Reviewer: Please add the link for GuardRecord as well.. This one
 [Guardium record](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/common/src/main/java/com/ibm/guardium/universalconnector/commons/structures/Record.java)

The plug-in is free and open-source (Apache 2.0). It can be used as a starting point to develop addition filter plug-ins for Guardium universal connector.

## 1. Configuring the Mysql server
There are multiple ways to install a MySQL on-premise server. For this example, we will assume that we already have a working MySQL setup.
## 2. Installing and Enabling Auditing

> In order to install the Audit Plugin, please refer to the official MySQL [documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-secure-deployment-guide/5.7/en/secure-deployment-audit.html):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to install the Audit Plug-in, please refer to the official MySQL [documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-secure-deployment-guide/5.7/en/secure-deployment-audit.html):
```

> This guide provides detailed information on how to install the Audit Plugin, as well as best practices for configuring and using it in a secure manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide provides detailed information on how to install the Audit Plug-in, as well as best practices for configuring and using it in a secure manner.
```

> 

Reviewer: Steps to View Audit Logs are missing

Author: Isn't included in the referred guide here?
https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-secure-deployment-guide/5.7/en/secure-deployment-audit.html

Author: I added another guide - the 2 guides should cover all the auditing configuration instructions

## 3. Configuring Filebeat to push logs to Guardium

## a. Filebeat installation

### Procedure:

1. To install Filebeat on your system, follow the steps in this topic:
   https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#installation

## b. Filebeat configuration:

To use Logstash to perform additional processing on the data collected by Filebeat, we need to configure Filebeat to use Logstash. To do this, modify the filebeat.yml file which you can find inside the folder where Filebeat is installed. Follow these instructions for finding the installation directory:
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/directory-layout.html

### Procedure:

1. Configuring the input section :-

   • Locate "filebeat.inputs" in the filebeat.yml file, then add the following parameters.

>    	filebeat.inputs:

Reviewer: Please check the formatting according to other README, Cassandra can be referred

Author: It took from Cassandra README, with adjustments for MySQL.

   		- type: log   
   		- enabled: true
   	paths:
   		- <path_of_log_file as specified in /path/to/audit.log file>
   		- exclude_lines: ['AuditLogManager']

   where path_of_log_file is the same path that was used when enabling MySQL auditing. For example, /home/mysql8_ent/mysql/data/audit.log .

   • Add the tags to uniquely identify the MySQL on-prem events from the rest.

>    tags: ["<tag_name>>"]

Reviewer: Do we need to handle multiline audit logs? If yes please add the details

Author: I compared it with an existing filebeat.yml from a MySQL server that uses for testing and I didn't see any mention of multiline audit logs there. so I assumed that no need to handle it.

Reviewer: Ok thanks

To test filter installation on your development Logstash:
1. Install Logstash (using Brew, for example).
2. Install the filter plug-in (see above).
2. Run this command:
   	• Enable Logstash output by uncommenting the Logstash section. For more information, see https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/logstash-output.html#logstash-output

    ```$ logstash -f ./filter-test.conf --config.reload.automatic```
   For example:

## Configuring the MySQL filters in Guardium Insights
To configure this plug-in for Guardium Insights, follow [this guide.](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/docs/UC_Configuration_GI.md)
In the input configuration section, refer to the Filebeat section.
   	output.logstash:
   		hosts: ["127.0.0.1:5045"]
   	
   	• The hosts option specifies the Logstash server and the port (5001) where Logstash is configured to listen for incoming Beats connections.

   	• You can set any port number except 5044, 5141, and 5000 (as these are currently reserved in Guardium v11.3 and v11.4 ).

3. To learn how to start FileBeat, see https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-installation-configuration.html#start

> ### Not supported

Reviewer: This "Not Supported" section, can be added as Limitations?

Author: This section is related to the Logstash installation which is not relevant anymore

> • You must have permission for the S-Tap Management role. The admin user includes this role, by default.

Reviewer: Details about LFD policy missing. Do we not upload the java plugin for this? is it by default available?

Author: No need to upload the Mysql on-prem plugin, it by default available.

Reviewer: About LFD policy details?

Author: LFD policy means to see all log details in the reports, this is not related to the plug-in's configuration, did you see something about it in another plug-in's readme file? I'll check it.

Reviewer 2: I have a comment for this that might be relevant:  @PratikshaSonawane  @RefaelAdi , we recently removed the recommendation to configure the LFD policy from the before you begin section for all the plug-in readmes. (Pratiksha maybe you remember this from GRD-64294 and UCX-228.)

Instead, we put a general recommendation to configure policies per the user's requirements with a link to the policy section on the main page.

> 1. On the collector, go to Setup > Tools and Views > Configure Universal Connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the collector, go to ```Setup``` > ```Tools and Views``` > ```Configure Universal Connector```.
```

> 2. First enable the Universal Guardium connector, if it is disabled already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. First, enable the Guardium universal connector, if it is currently disabled.
```

> 3. Click the Plus sign to open the Connector Configuration dialog box.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click the Plus sign to open the ```Connector Configuration``` dialog box.
```

> 4. Type a name in the Connector name field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Type a name in the ```Connector name``` field.
```

> 5. Select Connector template as "MySQL using Filebeat" or "MySQL using Syslog".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Select ```MySQL using Filebeat``` or ```MySQL using Syslog``` for the ```Connector template```.
```

> 6. Follow the notes in the  "Input configuration" section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Follow the notes in the ```Input configuration``` section.
```

> 6. Follow the notes in the  "Input configuration" section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Follow the notes in the  ```Input configuration``` section.
```

> 8. Click Save. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Click ```Save```. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the ```Configure Universal Connector``` page.
```

> In the input configuration section, refer to the Filebeat section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the ```Input configuration``` section, refer to the Filebeat section.
```

> * If events with "(NONE)" local/remote IP addresses are not filtered, the filter plug-in will convert the IP to "0.0.0.0", as a valid format for IP is needed. However, this is atypical, since as messages without users are filtered out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If events with "(NONE)" local/remote IP addresses are not filtered, the filter plug-in will convert the IP to "0.0.0.0", as a valid format for IP is needed. However, this is atypical, since messages without users are filtered out.
```

> * Events in the filter are not removed, but tagged if not parsed (see [Filter result](#filter-result), below).

Reviewer 2: but rather tagged?

> *  If the dbname is not coming from command line, it will not get populated. If the user wants to see the dbname, either they need to send a use statement or send it on command line.

Reviewer 2: database name?

If you want to see the database name, send it either as a use statement or via the command line?

> *  If the dbname is not coming from command line, it will not get populated. If the user wants to see the dbname, either they need to send a use statement or send it on command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  If the dbname is not coming from the command line, it will not get populated. If you want to see the dbname, either  send a use statement or send it on command line.
```
